Add documentation on verifying Images and other attestations (#1457)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/chainguard/chainguard-images/verifying-chainguard-images-and-metadata-signatures-with-cosign.md

---
title: "Verifying Chainguard Images and Metadata Signatures with Cosign"
linktitle: "Verifying with Cosign"
aliases:
  - /chainguard/chainguard-images/verifying-images-with-cosign
type: "article"
description: "A walkthrough of verifying Chainguard Images and metadata signatures with Cosign."
date: 2024-03-18T08:59:52-07:00
lastmod: 2024-03-18T08:59:52-07:00
draft: false
tags: ["Conceptual", "Chainguard Images", "Product"]
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "chainguard-images"
weight: 020
toc: true
---

> All Chainguard Images contain verifiable signatures and build-time SBOMs (software bill of materials), features that enable users to confirm the origin of each image built and have a detailed list of everything that is packed within.

Author: I just disagree with the expansion of the acronym containing `bills` plural
https://www.cisa.gov/sbom

```suggestion
All Chainguard Images contain verifiable signatures and build-time [SBOMs](/open-source/sbom/what-is-an-sbom/) (software bill of materials), features that enable users to confirm the origin of each image built and review a detailed list of everything that is packed within.
```

> All Chainguard Images contain verifiable signatures and build-time SBOMs (software bill of materials), features that enable users to confirm the origin of each image built and have a detailed list of everything that is packed within.

Reviewer: SBOMs is "bills", SBOM is just "bill", so you can change it to SBOM singular of you prefer.

> All Chainguard Images contain verifiable signatures and build-time SBOMs (software bill of materials), features that enable users to confirm the origin of each image built and have a detailed list of everything that is packed within.

Author: Oh, I read SBOMs as "software bill of materials" as a "bill of materials" is a single list of materials used in, something like a construction build or an order of hardware etc, etc.

> The following commands requires [cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview/) and [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to be installed on your machine in order to download and verify image attestations. It will pull detailed information about all signatures found for the provided image.

Author: This is in-line with the [console provenance tab](https://console.enforce.dev/images/organization/image/python/provenance)

> The following commands requires [cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview/) and [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to be installed on your machine in order to download and verify image attestations. It will pull detailed information about all signatures found for the provided image.

Reviewer: Yeah, at one point we title cased everything on Sigstore (I'm the docs maintainer), but I think it still goes both ways

> The following commands requires [cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview/) and [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to be installed on your machine in order to download and verify image attestations. It will pull detailed information about all signatures found for the provided image.

Author: ```suggestion
The following commands requires [Cosign](/open-source/sigstore/cosign/an-introduction-to-cosign/) and [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to be installed on your machine in order to download and verify image attestations. It will pull detailed information about all signatures found for the provided image.
```

  --certificate-identity=https://github.com/chainguard-images/images-private/.github/workflows/release.yaml@refs/heads/main \
  cgr.dev/${PARENT}/${IMAGE}
```

This will pull in the signature for the attestation specified by the `--type` parameter, which in this case is the SPDX attestation for SBOMs (software bill of materials). You should get output that verifies the SBOM attestation signature in cosign's transparency log:

```shell
Verification for cgr.dev/chainguard/go --
The following checks were performed on each of these signatures:
- The cosign claims were validated
- Existence of the claims in the transparency log was verified offline
- The code-signing certificate was verified using trusted certificate authority certificates
Certificate subject:  https://github.com/chainguard-images/images/.github/workflows/release.yaml@refs/heads/main
Certificate issuer URL:  https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com
GitHub Workflow Trigger: schedule
GitHub Workflow SHA: da283c26829d46c2d2883de5ff98bee672428696
GitHub Workflow Name: .github/workflows/release.yaml
GitHub Workflow Trigger chainguard-images/images
GitHub Workflow Ref: refs/heads/main
...

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Learn more

To get up to speed with Sigstore, you can review the [Sigstore](/open-source/sigstore/) section of Chainguard Academy, visit the upstream [Sigstore Docs](https://docs.sigstore.dev/) site, and check out the [Sigstore organization on GitHub](https://github.com/sigstore). You can learn more about verifying software artifacts with Cosign by reading [How to Verify File Signatures with Cosign](/open-source/sigstore/cosign/how-to-verify-file-signatures-with-cosign/).  

Navigate to our [Images](/chainguard/chainguard-images/) landing page or [Getting Started Guides](https://edu.chainguard.dev/chainguard/chainguard-images/getting-started/) to understand more about Chainguard Images and how they offer low-to-zero CVEs. 
```

  --certificate-identity=https://github.com/chainguard-images/images-private/.github/workflows/release.yaml@refs/heads/main \
  cgr.dev/${PARENT}/${IMAGE}
```

This will pull in the signature for the attestation specified by the `--type` parameter, which in this case is the SPDX attestation for SBOMs. You should get output that verifies the SBOM attestation signature in Cosign's transparency log:

```shell
Verification for cgr.dev/chainguard/go --
The following checks were performed on each of these signatures:
- The cosign claims were validated
- Existence of the claims in the transparency log was verified offline
- The code-signing certificate was verified using trusted certificate authority certificates
Certificate subject:  https://github.com/chainguard-images/images/.github/workflows/release.yaml@refs/heads/main
Certificate issuer URL:  https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com
GitHub Workflow Trigger: schedule
GitHub Workflow SHA: da283c26829d46c2d2883de5ff98bee672428696
GitHub Workflow Name: .github/workflows/release.yaml
GitHub Workflow Trigger chainguard-images/images
GitHub Workflow Ref: refs/heads/main
...

> ## Learn more

Author: ```suggestion

## Learn more
```

---
title: "Verifying Chainguard Images and Metadata Signatures with Cosign"
linktitle: "Verifying Images"
aliases:
  - /chainguard/chainguard-images/verifying-images-with-cosign
type: "article"
description: "A walkthrough of verifying Chainguard Images and metadata signatures with Cosign."
date: 2024-03-18T08:59:52-07:00
lastmod: 2024-03-18T08:59:52-07:00
draft: false
tags: ["Conceptual", "Chainguard Images", "Product"]
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "chainguard-images"
weight: 020
toc: true
---

> All Chainguard Images contain verifiable signatures and build-time SBOMs (software bill of materials), features that enable users to confirm the origin of each image built and have a detailed list of everything that is packed within.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All Chainguard Images contain verifiable signatures and build-time SBOMs (software bills of materials), features that enable users to confirm the origin of each image built and have a detailed list of everything that is packed within.
```

> The following commands requires [cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview/) and [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to be installed on your machine in order to download and verify image attestations. It will pull detailed information about all signatures found for the provided image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following commands requires [Cosign](/open-source/sigstore/cosign/how-to-install-cosign/) and [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to be installed on your machine in order to download and verify image attestations. It will pull detailed information about all signatures found for the provided image.
```
